---
slug: 0.83.17
date: September 1, 2021
---

* Added FISTTP instruction to experimental cputype (LBi)
* Updated debugger to support and decode fisttp, fcomi,
  fcomip, fucomi, fucomip (LBi)
* Added support for Chinese/Japanese/Korean IMEs on
  Windows/Linux SDL2 builds. (nanshiki)
* Added cputype=experimental, which is the same as the
  highest CPU emulation level but with additional
  instructions from newer processors that do not exist
  in the era emulated by DOSBox-X i.e. FISTTP which is
  an SSE3 Pentium 4 instruction. (joncampbell123)
* Added support for 286/386 call gates to JMP
  instruction (joncampbell123)
* Added -bd option to IMGMOUNT to allow mounting
  partitions from a hard disk image mounted as an
  INT 13h hard disk. is the numeric value the
  hard disk image was mounted to. In this way, it
  becomes possible to mount any or all partitions
  in a hard disk image. WARNING: To safely mount
  multiple partitions, use -o partidx= to specify
  each partition you mount by index. (joncampbell123)
* If a drive has no volume label, and user runs
  LABEL without specifying one, do not ask whether
  or not to delete the volume label because there
  is in fact no volume label to delete. (joncampbell123)
* Added FreeDOS utilities DEFRAG, FORMAT, FDISK,
  CHKDSK, and SYS to the built-in Z drive. KERNEL.SYS
  is not provided so that the user can provide what
  they consider the best version of the FreeDOS kernel
  to format with if they use FORMAT /S (joncampbell123)
* INT 29h routes output through ANSI.SYS driver in
  both IBM PC and PC-98 mode, unless ansi.sys=false
  is set in the config setting. (joncampbell123)
* Integrated commits from mainline (Allofich)
  - Fix regression in r4444: Hercules machine type
cursor translation.
  - Remove redundant signature for ET4K that is now
    done in video BIOS.
  - Implement mouse driver function 0x27, fixes
    Alive - Behind the Moon.
  - Add log message for unusual cases where an
    executable unsafely places its initial stack outside
    the memory block.