---
slug: 0.83.6
date: September 30, 2020
---

* Improved internal Voodoo card hardware emulation,
  such as fixing the font issue with the 3dfx version
  of Tomb Raider when using non-Glide mode. Portions
  of the code are ported from DOSBox ECE. (Wengier)
* Added OpenGL shader support by porting the feature
  from DOSBox SVN. GLSL shaders are now supported in
  both SDL1 and SDL2 builds, and this also allows
  pixel-perfect scaling to be enabled for the OpenGL
  outputs. The config option "glshader" (in [render]
  section) can be used to specify a GLSL shader file
  or a built-in shader when the output is set to
  "opengl" or "openglnb". For example, you can use
  the setting "glshader=sharp" (built-in shader) or
  "glshader=pixel_perfect" (with GLSL shader file)
  for the pixel-perfect scaling mode. The Windows
  installer will also copy several GLSL shader files
  to the "glshaders" subdirectory of the DOSBox-X
  install directory to be used directly. (Wengier)
* Support for FluidSynth MIDI Synthesizer is now
  included in the Windows Visual Studio builds by
  default. Set "mididevice=fluidsynth" and a sound
  font (e.g. GeneralUser_GS.sf2) to use it. (Wengier)
* Updated the MUNT MT32 emulation library to its
  latest version 2.4.0. A few new MT32 config options
  (starting with "mt32.") are added to [midi] section
  of the DOSBox-X configuration. (Wengier)
* The DOSMID and MPXPLAY programs have been built
  into DOSBox-X, both can be found on the Z drive and
  feature full-screen user interfaces with support
  for command-line usages (use /? option for help).
  DOSMID can play MIDI/RMI/MUS audio files, whereas
  MPXPLAY is a powerful and flexible audio player
  with support for a variety of formats including
  AAC/AC3/APE/FLAC/MP2/MP3/MPC/OGG/WAV and more with
  playlist support. (Wengier)
* The mounting options "Mount as Hard Disk", "Mount
  as CD-ROM", "Mount as Floppy", "Mount disk image"
  and "Boot from disk image" (previously only for
  Windows) in the "Drive" menu and the "Quick launch
  program..." in the "DOS" menu are now available
  for non-Windows platforms as well. (Wengier)
* Added "Shared Windows clipboard functions" menu
  group under "Main", which allows you to enable
  or disable the different ways for DOSBox-X to
  communicate with the Windows clipboard. (Wengier)
* Added config option "dos clipboard api" in [dos]
  section to control whether to enable the DOS APIs
  for communications with the Windows clipboard for
  DOS applications. (Wengier)
* Added config option "clip_mouse_button" to select
  a mouse button (middle, right, or none; with right
  mouse button being the default) for copying to and
  pasting from the Windows clipboard. (Wengier)
* The mouse wheel movements will be automatically
  converted into up/down arrows by default for the
  intergrated DOS now. You can also enable it for
  the guest system from the "Main" menu ("mouse wheel
  movements" -> "Enable for guest systems also") or
  from the config file. (Wengier)
* Added "Emulate CPU speed" menu group (under "CPU")
  to emulate the speed of a specific CPU class. The
  cycles to emulate are approximations of the actual
  CPU hardware, and they are available thanks to data
  provided by the user maximus105. Also added config
  option "cycle emulation percentage adjust" in [cpu]
  section for users who would like to make relative
  percentage adjustments (between -25% and 25%) in
  case it is necessary. (Wengier)
* Added SORT command from FreeDOS. It can be used to
  sort input, e.g. "TYPE FILE.TXT | SORT". (Wengier)
* Added DELTREE command to delete a directory and all
  the subdirectories and files in it as in a real DOS
  system. Please use it with caution. (Wengier)
* The command for starting the Configuration Tool has
  been renamed from "SHOWGUI" to "CFGTOOL". A new
  command-line option -gui is added to CONFIG command
  to start the Configuration Tool as well. (Wengier)
* DOSBox-X now includes ZIP.EXE and UNZIP.EXE from
  InfoZip for zipping and unzipping files in DOS.
  Both programs will appear on the Z drive. (Wengier)
* The powerful DOS CD player called SJGPLAY has been
  built into DOSBox-X. You can now find the program
  CDPLAY.EXE in the Z drive for playing Audio CDs in
  DOS, which supports both graphical and command-line
  usage, and you will also find a text file named
  CDPLAY.TXT in the Z drive for a quick usage guide.
  A zip package including full documentation and some
  extras will additionally appear as SJGPLAY.ZIP in
  the Z drive. This freeware program was written by
  Steve Gray and is now included in DOSBox-X with
  explicit permission of the author. (Wengier)
* DOSBox-X will now by default show a quit warning
  if a DOS program or game, or a guest system is
  running. The previous behavior can be set with
  "quit warning=autofile". (Wengier)
* The welcome banner when DOSBox-X starts has been
  improved for a better looking and should provide
  more helpful instructions for users. (Wengier)
* Add new "Help" menu which includes menu items
  "Introduction", "DOSBox-X homepage", "DOSBox-X Wiki
  guide", "DOSBox-X support" and "About". (Wengier)
* Improved the message when automatically re-running
  the executable which failed with the "Packed file
  is corrupt" error. Also added the "autoloadfix"
  config option which when set to "false" will not
  automatically re-run such programs. (Wengier)
* The display for several section names in DOSBox-X's
  graphical configuration tool has been capitalized
  or modified otherwise to look better. A default
  shortcut key HOST(F11/F12)+C is added for starting
  the graphical configuration tool. (Wengier)
* Added the "Show advanced options" checkbox in the
  main screen of the Configuration GUI to toggle
  whether to display all config options for the
  sections. If unchecked (default), it will show
  common config options instead of all of them. A
  new config option "show advanced options" is added
  which when set to "true" will make the checkbox
  checked by default. (Wengier)
* Added code to cap the scan line length given to
  the VESA BIOS given the video mode. This prevents
  VBETEST.EXE from doing test patterns smaller than
  the actual display, which can happen with 32bpp
  320x200 modes and 1MB or less video RAM.
* VESA BIOS Set Scan Line Length fixed to properly
  report and handle scan line length for 16-color
  SVGA planar modes. VBETEST 16-color modes now
  display correctly.
* Added option to control whether VESA BIOS panning
  (the original VBE call) waits for vsync.
* Moved video related config options from [dosbox]
  section to its own [video] section. These options
  in existing config files will be automatically
  redirected to the [video] section from the [dosbox]
  section when DOSBox-X starts. Windows installer can
  also move such config options from existing config
  files automatically. (Wengier)
* Cleared modem phone book before parsing it. Thank
  NicknineTheEagle for the improvement.
* Improved the help message of MOUNT command. Also
  added option -examples to show its usage examples,
  similar to IMGMOUNT and IMGMAKE commands. (Wengier)
* Fixed freeze when trying to reboot the internal
  DOS when using a different code page and it is in
  CGA or EGA emulation modes. (Wengier)
* DOSBox-X will now try to use the internal DOS date
  and time (instead of always using the host date and
  date) for file modication timestamps. (Wengier)
* Added menu item "Expanded memory (EMS)" under "DOS"
  menu to dynamically enable or disable EMS memory
  at run-time. You can now also modify EMS memory
  with CONFIG command from command-line. (Wengier)
* Added config option "drive z hide files" (in [dos]
  section) to hide or remove files listed (separated
  by spaces) from the Z drive. If a file has a "/"
  prefix (e.g. "/INTRO.COM"), then the specified file
  will have the hidden attribute ("DIR /A" will list
  all such files) instead of completely disappearing
  from the Z drive. (Wengier)
* You can now add your own programs or files to the
  Z drive! Put your programs or files in the drivez
  directory located in the DOSBox-X program folder
  or the DOSBox-X configuration directory, and they
  will automatically appear on the Z drive. If any of
  the files have the same names as the built-in ones,
  they will replace the built-in files. For example,
  you can replace the built-in EDIT.COM and XCOPY.EXE
  programs (from FreeDOS) with MS-DOS counterparts.
  Windows installer will now automatically create a
  drivez directory with a README.TXT file in it too.
  For subdirectories support please use MOUNT command
  to mount local directory instead. (Wengier).