---
slug: 0.83.12
date: April 1, 2021
---

*   CD-ROM image emulation now supports ISO images
    that are 2GB or larger, 32-bit integer size limit
    has been lifted.
*   Added scrollbar buttons to the Configuration Tool,
    so that the scrollbars better resemble the style of
    the Windows 3.1 scrollbars.
*   The help window for the Configuration Tool will now
    display possible and default values for the config
    options in addition to the descriptions. (Wengier)
*   Updated the MMX patch code by kekko. (Wengier)
*   Improved the compatibility of AUTOTYPE command with
    games like Asterix & Obelix. (Wengier)
*   MIXER command now supports the /GUI option to show
    a popup window to display the mixer information.
    Also improved its /LISTMIDI option which will show
    the name of the current MIDI handler and you can
    optionally specify a MIDI handler name (win32/alsa)
    to show the information for this handler. (Wengier)
*   Tandy graphics emulation fixed to accept 8 bits
    for vertical total and vertical display CRTC
    registers, which is needed for the tweaked
    graphics mode used by Math Rabbit to display
    correctly.
*   INT 10h will no longer fill in three fields in
    the BIOS data area (video CTL, char height, and
    video switches) unless the machine type is
    EGA or VGA. Those fields do not exist otherwise.
    Certain games like Mindscape's "Road Runner" game
    require those fields to be zero as part of it's
    Tandy detection routine.
*   PCjr mode will omit the reserved graphics RAM
    MCB block, and will subtract 16KB from the top
    at the BIOS level, if emulating 128KB system
    memory or less.
*   You can now run PCjr mode with as little as
    128KB of RAM. Removed 256KB minimum check from
    DOS kernel. Certain games (Mickey's Space
    Adventure) require memsizekb=128 and memsize=0
    in PCjr mode or else it will not work correctly
    due to how the game locates video system memory.
*   Fixed Tandy mode to place video memory at the
    top of conventional memory and allow running
    Tandy mode with a memsizekb setting as low as
    64KB, though 256KB or higher is recommended.
*   Added Tandy "real memory size" field in the
    BIOS data area.
*   Tandy emulation updated to subtract 16KB from
    top of conventional memory, which fixes some
    games and follows DOSBox SVN behavior and real
    hardware according to others on the Vogons forums.
*   Fixed bug that limited Tandy mode to 624KB of
    conventional memory. 32KB of video RAM is taken
    from top of memory, losing half of the 32KB
    breaks games that write to the system RAM instead
    of B800:0000 segment and causes half the graphics
    to not render.
*   Increased upper limit of "prebuffer" config option
    (in [mixer] section) from 100 to 250. It is still
    recommended to set a value less than 100. (Wengier)
*   The config options ttf.wpbg, ttf.bold, ttf.italic,
    ttf.underline, ttf.strikeout, and ttf.char512 can
    now be modified dynamically with CONFIG -SET ...
    commands, e.g. CONFIG -SET ttf.wpbg=2. (Wengier)
*   The minimal value for the ttf.ptsize config option
    has been decreased from 10 to 9. (Wengier)
*   Added menu item "Save logging as..." (under "Help"
    -> "Debugging options") to save the current logging
    content to the specified file. (Wengier)
*   Added slirp backend support for the NE2000 network
    feature (in addition to the existing pcap backend).
    There are config sections named [ethernet, slirp]
    and [ethernet, pcap] now to set the options for the
    slirp and pcap backends respectively. Please refer
    to the networking guide in the DOSBox-X Wiki for
    more information about the backends. (Jookia)
*   FAT driver can now support PC-98 HDI images with
    partitions that start at any physical sector even
    if the start is not a multiple of the ratio of
    logical to physical sector size. This allows the
    HDI image of Dragon Knight 4 to mount.
*   Control character 7 (BEEP) is now allowed while
    executing batch files without warnings. (Wengier)
*   With the setting "core=auto" DOSBox-X now updates
    the menu in the "CPU core" menu group automatically
    between "Normal core" and "Dynamic core" to reflect
    the CPU core which is currently in use. (Wengier)
*   Fixed Windows 95/98 installation failures caused by
    FAT driver and DOS API changes in previous version.
*   Fixed well-intended but erroneous fall through case
    in the INT15 handler that prevented 3rd party mouse
    drivers from detecting the PS/2 mouse.
*   Fixed the color issue with the Configuration Tool
    in the macOS SDL1 build. (ant_222)
*   Fixed switching ttf.cols, ttf.lins, and ttf.font
    options dynamically in full-screen mode. (Wengier)
*   Fixed menu options "Increase TTF font size" and
    "Decrease TTF font size" (both under "Video" =>
    "TTF options") not working (but keyboard shortcuts
    and those in the system menu work). (Wengier)
*   Fixed setting option "ttf.wp=xy3" or "ttf.wp=xy4"
    not working (but "ttf.wp=xy" did work). (Wengier)
*   Fixed preview function in WordStar not working for
    TrueType font output in previous version. (Wengier)
*   Fixed the issue that caused Windows 3.x group file
    corruption on hard disk image files. (SnikoLoft)
*   Integrated SVN commits (Allofich)
    - r4416: Added ability to start and stop avi
        recording, and to start keymapper, from config.
    - r4405: Smarter clearing of the dynrec cache.