---
slug: 0.83.7
date: November 1, 2020
---

## 1. Notable New Features

* **32-bit and 64-bit x86 dynamic core**

    With the new x86 dynamic CPU core for both 32-bit and 64-bit systems, the overall emulation speed for DOS programs is noticeably improved. Set either "core=dynamic" or "core=dynamic_x86" to enable this core.
* **New CPU types to emulate CPU speed**

    You can now emulate the speed in terms of CPU cycles for 286-25MHz, 386DX-25MHz, 486DX4-100MHz, 486DX5-133MHz, Pentium-60MHz, Pentium-75MHz, and Pentium-90MHz CPUs.
* **Opus CD audio tracks**

    Support for cue sheets with Opus CD-DA tracks is now available, in addition to FLAC, MP3, WAV, OGG Vorbis CD-DA tracks already supported. Use either the menu or IMGMOUNT command to mount them.
* **Full Ctrl+Break handler**

    DOSBox-X now supports full Ctrl+C/Ctrl+Break emulation in the DOS shell and DOS applications. You can also send Ctrl+Break as a special key from the "Main" menu.
* **Support for save files and save remarks**

    For the save and load state feature, you can now save to your own save files instead of pre-defined save slots. Save remarks can be entered too for both pre-defined save slots and your own save files.
* **Setting the window position at startup**

    A new config option "windowposition" (in [sdl] section) is supported to set the window position at startup in the positionX,positionY format.
* **New clipboard copy and paste features**

    There are new clipboard functions such as "copy all text on the DOS screen" and "Stop clipboard pasting" in the menu. Moreover, the mouse copy and paste feature is now supported in Linux and macOS SDL2 builds as well.
* **FluidSynth in Windows MinGW builds**

    Support for FluidSynth MIDI Synthesizer is now included in the MinGW builds by default just like Visual Studio builds. Set "mididevice=fluidsynth" and a soundfont file (e.g. GeneralUser_GS.sf2) to use it.
* **xBRZ scaler in Visual Studio SDL2 builds**

    The xBRZ scaler is now enabled for Visual Studio SDL2 builds just like Visual Studio SDL1 builds. You can enable it either with the setting "scaler=xbrz" or from the menu (from "Video" -> "Scaler").
* **Raw mouse input option for SDL2 builds**

    You can enable this option to bypass the operating system's mouse acceleration and sensitivity settings. This works in fullscreen or when the mouse is captured in window mode.
* **Mount multiple disk or CD images from menu**

    You can now mount multiple floppy, hard disk or CD images from the "Drive" menu, swappable with "Swap floppy" or "Swap CD". Command-line usage for this is no longer required.
* **Changing text-mode video settings from menu**

    It is now possible to change some text-mode related video settings such as the number of rows and columns directly from the menu (from "Video" -> "Text-mode").
* **Display Sound Blaster and MIDI device configurations from menu**

    The menu items "Show Sound Blaster configuration" and "Show MIDI device configuration" are added to the "Sound" menu to show the current configurations of the Sound Blaster and MIDI devices.

## 2. Notable Usability Improvements

* **New website for DOSBox-X Wiki system**

    The primary DOSBox-X Wiki (where you find the DOSBox-X user guide) is now located at the following URL, which is hopefully easier to remember: [https://dosbox-x.com/wiki](https://dosbox-x.com/wiki)
* **Easier to navigate DOSBox-X default configuration file**

    The primary DOSBox-X sample configuration file now contains common config options only, which should make it easier to navigate than before. The full configuration file is also separately available for users who want to use it.
* **Improved Linux Flatpak support**

    Initial Linux Flatpak support was added in the previous version. This version improves it to make it work better.
* **New default "Typical" installation for Windows installer**

    The "Typical" installation type is added in the Windows installer as the default installation. Unlike the full installation it will not copy all builds to subdirectories in order to make the installation faster.
* **Built-in real parallel port passthrough features in Windows**

    The Windows DLL files inpout32.dll (32-bit) and inpoutx64.dll (64-bit) required for the direct parallel port passthrough feature are now included with Windows installer by default.
* **Native dialog box to display messages**

    DOSBox-X will now use native Windows/Linux/macOS dialog box to display quit warnings and save state errors.
* **Reorganized some menu items**

    Some menu items in the drop-down menus have been renamed or reorganized to make them look better or more clear than before.
* **Improved command-line help messages**

    The help messages for the DOSBox-X command-line options are improved, such as adding the new -silent and -socket command-line options.
* **Improved debuging options from Help menu**

    The debugging-related functions are now availble from the "Help" menu, including the debugger and more debugging functions which were previously under other menus.
* **Select a special key to send to DOS with the customized shortcut**

    You can now select a special key (Alt+Tab, Ctrl+Break, Ctrl+Alt+Del, etc) to be sent from the key defined in the mapper editor. The key can be selected from the "Send special key" menu group in "Main" menu.
* **Shortcuts for copying all screen text and quick launch functions**

    The functions "CopyToClipboard" and "QuickRun" are added to the mapper editor so that you can use shortcuts to activate them (default shortcuts: HOST(F11/F12)+A and HOST(F11/F12)+Q respectively).
* **Enable or disable US keyboard layout for PC-98 mode from menu**

    You can now force the default US keyboard layout in PC-98 mode from the menu (from "Video" -> "PC-98" -> "Use US keyboard layout") for those who want to use PC-98 mode without a Japanese keyboard.

## 3. Bugfixes and Other Improvements

There are also many bugfixes and other improvements, including ported recent DOSBox SVN commits. Please see the full changelogs below for more information.

## 4. Full Changelog In This Version

* The primary DOSBox-X Wiki is now located at the
    URL: [https://dosbox-x.com/wiki](https://dosbox-x.com/wiki)
    (Wengier)
* Implemented the x86 dynamic core for both 32-bit
    and 64-bit systems by re-porting the code from SVN.
    Dynamic core now supports either the dynamic_x86
    or the dynamic_rec core. The dynamic_x86 core will
    be used by default for x86 and x86_64 platforms and
    if "core=dynamic" is set, and Windows 9x can be run
    in this dynamic core (although at this time may
    encounter some issue with the S3 driver). You can
    also explicit specify setting "core=dynamic_x86" or
    "core=dynamic_rec" for either the dynamic_x86 core
    or the dynamic_rec core. Also thank joncampbell123
    for the 64-bit fix. (Wengier)
* You can now use your own save file (in addition to
    save slots! There are now a "Use save file" toggle
    item and "Browse save file..." for browsing save
    files on your computer. A config option "savefile"
    (in [dosbox] section) is added to specify a save
    file to use at start. (Wengier)
* Save state feature now allows users to optionally
    enter remarks when saving a state. A submenu group
    "Save/load option" is added (under "Capture") where
    you can toggle menu items "No remark when saving
    state" (for disabling input of remarks when saving)
    and "force load state mode". A menu item "Display
    state information" is added as well to display the
    information of the saved state. (Wengier)
* DOSBox-X will now use native dialog box to display
    quit warnings and save state errors. (Wengier)
* Changed some DOS error messages (such as "Illegal
    command" which now reads "Bad command or filename")
    similar to real DOS systems. (Wengier)
* ADDKEY and INT2FDBG commands now appear as programs
    on Z: drive instead of shell commands. (Wengier)
* Improved the -z (move virtual drive Z:) function of
    MOUNT command. You can move the virtual drive as
    many times as you want, and save/load states will
    work even after you move the Z: drive. (Wengier)
* Enhanced the config option "freesizecap" to allow
    the setting "fixed" which is the same as "false",
    and a new setting "relative" is added, which will
    be similar to the setting "fixed" but the reported
    free disk size will also change relative to the
    change of the free disk size ever since. (Wengier)
* Added support for Opus CD-DA tracks by porting and
    cleaning up the source code from other projects.
    Many thanks to Marty Shepard and kcgen. (Wengier)
* Support for FluidSynth MIDI Synthesizer is now
    included in the MinGW builds by default just like
    Visual Studio builds. Set "mididevice=fluidsynth"
    and a soundfont file to use it. (Wengier)
* Enabled xBRZ scaler for Visual Studio SDL2 builds
    just like Visual Studio SDL1 builds. (Wengier)
* Added menu item "Show Sound Blaster configuration"
    under "Sound" menu to show the current information
    about Sound Blaster, and also menu item "Show MIDI
    device configuration" (also under "Sound" menu)
    to show information about the current MIDI device
    such as the soundfont file in use. (Wengier)
* Added "Mount multiple disk/CD images" option to the
    mounting options of the Drive menu to allow users
    to mount more than one disk/CD images to a drive,
    swappable from the menu. Also added separators to
    the Drive submenu to make it look better. (Wengier)
* Added new CPU types to the "Emulate CPU speed" menu
    group namely 286-25MHz, 386DX-25MHz, 486DX4-100MHz,
    486DX5-133MHz, Pentium-60MHz, Pentium-75MHz, and
    Pentium-90MHz. Thanks again for the data provided
    by the user maximus105. (Wengier)
* You can now select a special key (e.g. Alt+Tab,
    Ctrl+Break, Ctrl+Alt+Del, etc) to be sent from the
    key defined in the mapper editor. The key can be
    selected (Ctrl+Alt+Del by default) from the "Send
    special key" menu group in "Main" menu. (Wengier)
* Added full Ctrl+Break emulation at the BIOS and
    DOS level, updated console emulation to match.
    The "Pause" mapper shortcut is now moved to
    HOST[F11/F12]+Pause instead of Ctrl+Pause so that
    Ctrl+Break can work properly for users, and the
    function to send the Ctrl+Break key from the menu
    ("Send special key" under "Main") is added. Also,
    the PC-98 STOP key now functions the same as the
    Ctrl+C and Ctrl+Break keys in IBM PC mode.
* Added functions "CopyToClipboard" and "QuickRun" to
    the mapper editor so that you can use shortcuts to
    activate them (default shortcuts: HOST(F11/F12)+A
    and HOST(F11/F12)+Q respectively), and a default
    shortcut HOST(F11/F12)+V is added to the clipboard
    paste function. Meanwhile, FullCore and SimpleCore
    shortcuts are removed from the mapper. (Wengier)
* Added two new menu items in the "Shared clipboard
    functions" menu group under "Main", including "Copy
    all text on the DOS screen" which will copy all
    screen text to the clipboard, and "Stop clipboard
    pasting" which allows user to stop pasting in the
    middle of pasting long clipboard content. (Wengier)
* The mouse copy/paste feature is now available for
    non-Windows systems on SDL2 builds. Also, pasting
    from the clipboard with a mapped shortcut is also
    available for Linux/X11 on SDL1 builds. (Wengier)
* Added "Use US keyboard layout" toggle menu item in
    the "PC-98" menu group under "Video" to select
    whether to force the default US keyboard layout in
    PC-98 mode, same as the "pc-98 force ibm keyboard
    layout" config option in [pc98] section. Also moved
    the "PC-98 PIT master clock" options from the "DOS"
    menu to this menu group. (Wengier)
* The full dosbox-x.reference.conf file is renamed to
    dosbox-x.reference.full.conf. The original file
    dosbox-x.reference.conf now contains common config
    options instead of all config options. (Wengier)
* The CONFIG command and Configuration Tool will now
    save common and modified config options by default.
    The -all command-line option (or "Save all options
    to the configuration file" checkbox) will force to
    save all config options. A new -mod command-line
    option is added to CONFIG command to save modified
    config options only, and a new -norem command-line
    option is added to not write remarks. (Wengier)
* Updated the Windows installer to default to the
    "typical" installation. For the full installation
    start menu items will be added for DOSBox-X builds
    copied to subdirectories. A new checkbox "Write
    common config options (instead of all) to the
    configuration file" is added which when checked
    will only write common and modified advanced config
    options to the config file. Furthermore, for both
    "typical" and "full" installations the Windows
    installer will now also copies the DLL files
    inpout32.dll (32-bit) and inpoutx64.dll (64-bit) to
    the DOSBox-X install directory for use with the
    direct parallel port passthrough feature. (Wengier)
* Improved Flatpak support for Linux. (rderooy)
* Improved message for the -help command-line option,
    adding for example -silent and -socket command-line
    options in the help messages. (Wengier)
* Added -silent command-line option to run DOSBox-X
    silently (without showing the DOSBox-X window) and
    then exit after executing AUTOEXEC.BAT. (Wengier)
* Fixed command-line option -socket not working for
    the null-modem feature. (Wengier)
* Fixed issue that aspect ratio not being respected
    in full-screen mode when a GLSL shader is enabled
    with an OpenGL output. (Wengier)
* Fixed toggle in the "Frameskip" menu group did not
    change when selecting a different option. (Wengier)
* Fixed shelling from programs may not work when the
    shell config option is set. (Wengier)
* The default country setting ("country" option in
    [config] section]) now defaults to auto-detection
    if possible, or 81 (Japan) in PC-98 mode. (Wengier)
* Increased the default maximum DOS files (adjustable
    from [config] section) from 127 to 200. (Wengier)
* Improved resetting with LOADLIN program. (Wengier)
* Improved Gravis Ultrasound (GUS) implementation to
    make it more accurately represent the GUS DMA state
    as expected by the running DOS software.
* The archive attribute will no longer automatically
    be applied to directories on non-Windows systems.
    This fixed issue with PLAYMIDI.EXE from Gravis
    Ultrasound when listing directories. (Wengier)
* Applied hack to allow the low DMA channel detection
    in the SB16 DIAGNOSE program to work. (Wengier)
* The default setting of the clip_paste_speed option
    has been changed from 20 to 30, which will help
    prevent lost keystrokes when pasting from the host
    clipboard for some programs. (Wengier)
* With Pentium CPU setting (cputype=pentium) DOSBox-X
    no longer reports FDIV bug by default. An advanced
    config option "report fdiv bug" is added to report
    such CPU bug when set to true. (rderooy & Wengier)
* Added support for the XDG_DATA_HOME environment
    variable for config directory in Linux. (rderooy)
* Added support for compiling with pcap for Windows
    MinGW builds. (Jookia)
* Added config option "windowposition" (in [sdl]
    section) to set the window position at startup in
    the positionX,positionY format. (tomba4)
* Added config option "raw_mouse_input" (in [sdl]
    section; SDL2 builds only) to bypass the operating
    system's mouse acceleration & sensitivity settings.
    Implemented by NicknineTheEagle.
* Added config option "startquiet" (in [dos] section)
    which when set to true will silence the information
    messages before launching Windows programs to run
    on the Windows host. A toggle menu item "Quiet mode
    (no start messages)" is added to the "Windows host
    applications" menu group in "DOS" menu. (Wengier)
* The menu "Show details" (under "Main") is renamed
    to "Show FPS and RT speed in title bar". (Wengier)
* Add menu group "Text-mode" under "Video" menu to
    change some text-mode related video settings, such
    as changing the number of rows and columns. A zip
    package named TEXTUTIL.ZIP is added to the Z drive
    that contains various utilities (such as CGA.COM,
    EGA.COM, 132X25.COM, 132X43.COM) to change current
    video setting from the command line. Also added a
    config option "high intensity blinking" which when
    set will display high intensity background colors
    instad of blinking foreground text. The menu item
    "Allow 9-pixel wide fonts" is moved from the menu
    group "Compatibility" to here. (Wengier)
* Added "Debugging" menu group under "Help" menu, and
    moved items from the "Video" Debug and "DOS" Debug
    menus and the debugger here (debug builds only).
    Also allowed to hide/show the console or debugger
    window in Windows debug builds. With the menu item
    "Console wait on error" checked the Windows console
    window will wait for the ENTER key before closing
    itself after an E_EXIT occurs. (Wengier)
* Updated MPXPLAY to latest version 1.65. (Wengier)
* Integrated SVN commits (Allofich)
    - r4386: Correct MPU-401 clock-to-host function to
    operate independently of playing. Fixes hang at
    exit when playing Roland music in demos by The
    Phoney Coders. Clamp tempo to valid range.
    - r4384: ICW1 on the PIC clears the Interrupt Mask
    Register. Fixes Antagony and quite a few demos that
    expect IRQs to be unmasked.
    - r4382: Refine adlib timers a bit more and make
    reading the Adlib take a bit more time.
    - r4378: Prevent some possible deadlocks with sti
    in dynrec core.
    - r4375: Improve compatibility with older Intel
    chipsets
    - r4374: Add a bit of hack so cycles=max/auto 90%
    keeps on working inside batch files after r3925.
    - r4371: Fix regression in Clue: Master Detective.
    - r4370: As an adjunct to r4369, make the reference
        counts of standard device handles equivalent to
        those of real DOS.
    - r4369: Compatible side-effect behavior of DOS in
        the file close function.
    - r4368: Improve error codes for some DOS file functions.
    - r4367: Change FPU_FBST to only write 18 decimals
        instead of the wrongly 19, this makes it possible
        to switch 64 integers which in turn fixes some
        rounding issues. (jmarsh)
    - r4282,r4283: Switch to a different way to calculate
        DBOPL table offsets.
    - r4280: Prevent GenerateDMASound from running with
        input of 0.
    - r4279: Remove DMA_TRANSFEREND and replace with
        DMA_MASKED.
    - r4277: Remove cases not needed after r4276
    - r4276: Remove defunct code related to the initial
        display mode of the system BIOS during video mode
        changes.
    - r4274: fix externals.
    - r4273: Make frameskip an integer.
    - r4269: Use fabsf when return value is a float.
        Small warning fix.
    - r4265: Some more cleanups and memleak fixes.
    - r4264: Pick some lowhanging fruit. (some memory
        leaks and unused variables)
    - r4262: missed one
    - r4261: These actually use float as input.
    - r4258: Rename bios tester to biostest and make it
        debug only to avoid people trying to load real
        bioses.
    - r4257: Add simple program that allows you to boot
        into a bios image for running cpu tester bios.