---
slug: 0.83.10
date: February 1, 2021
---

## 1. Notable New Features

* **New Windows 95/98-friendly dynamic core**

    There are major improvements for the 32/64-bit dynamic_x86 CPU core in this version to support Windows 9x/ME guest systems. It can now handle page faults non-recursively so that you will be able to run the dynamic_x86 core with Windows 9x in a largely reliable manner.
* **Improved support for playing 3Dfx games**

    3dfx games can now work with the Glide passthrough feature when a guest system (guest DOS or Windows 9x) is currently running, in addition to DOSBox-X's integrated DOS. The speed of the Voodoo hardware emulation for running games like Tomb Raider 3dfx is also improved.
* **Write/overlay support for mounted ZIP/7Z archives**

    In the previous version support for mounting ZIP/7Z archives in read-only mode was added. This version adds the ability to make such drives writable by using overlay mounts, so that you can specify a directory for any changes to be written to. For example, the command "MOUNT C C:\DIR -T OVERLAY" will specify the directory C:\DIR(\C_DRIVE) as the write location after mounting C: drive with a ZIP/7Z archive.
* **Support for native pixel-perfect scaling with openglpp output**

    DOSBox-X now natively supports the pixel-perfect scaling for improved image quality. Setting "output=openglpp" or selecting "OpenGL perfect" from the menu ("Video" => "Output") to enable it. It is recommended to set config options "aspect=true" (whenever the emulated display has an aspect ratio of 4:3) and "doublescan=false" for the pixel-perfect scaling.
* **Support for Direct3D output in Windows SDL2 builds as default output**

    The Direct3D output is now supported on Windows SDL2 builds just like Windows SDL1 builds. With this the Direct3D output becomes the default output in all Windows builds, but you can change this either from the installer or from the configuration.
* **Support for specifying printers to print on Windows systems**

    The printing functions have been further enhanced for the Windows platform to allow users to specify the printing devices they want to use by names for direct printing to the selected devices. The parallel port LPT1 now defaults to the printer as well.
* **Support for standard & mono mode dual-screen display**

    Per user requests, support for VGA/EGA/CGA mode and mono mode dual-screen setup is added in this version. You can now start DOSBox-X with the command-line option -display2, optionally followed by a color (white, green, amber) to enable this feature on debug builds.
* **Support for large CD ISO images**

    You can now mount very large CD ISO images either using IMGMOUNT command or from the menu. Previously only ISO images up to 2GB were supported.
* **Support for automatic restart with new config settings**

    A "Save & Restart" button has been added to the Configuration Tool's "Save" option for saving the config file and then automatically restarting DOSBox-X with this saved configuration. Also, command-line options such as -bc (-bootconf), -wcboot, -wcdboot and -wcpboot are added to CONFIG command which will reboot DOSBox-X with the current setting immediately or after writing the specified config file.
* **New built-in calculator for evaluating expressions**

    A built-in calculator (EVAL.EXE) is added to the internal drive, which can be used to calculate both simple and many advanced mathematical expressions (such as trigonometric functions) in either command-line mode or the interactive mode.
* **Implemented DOS network redirector functions**

    The DOS network redirector functions are implemented so that the host name can be reported to DOS programs which expect a networked environment. For a fuller network environment you may need to enable either the IPX or the NE2000 options.
* **Improved file locking on Windows systems**

    Support for networked DOS database applications (which require record locking) has been fully implemented on Windows systems. It is recommended to set the config option "file access tries=3" in [dos] section for such usages.
* **Improved TrueType font (TTF) output**

    The TrueType font (TTF) output has been further enhanced in this version. For example, you can now dynamically change the TTF font, the number of rows and columns on the TTF screen, and the word processor for TTF using CONFIG command. Cursor blinking rate for TrueType font (TTF) output can also be customized with the ttf.blinkc option now.
* **Improved compatibility for Windows XP**

    Windows XP compatibility has been improved in this version. The 32-bit Visual Studio builds (included in the Windows installer and portable package) should run in Windows XP, and various menu functions such as the options to select shaders and the "Create blank disk image..." menu feature should now work in Windows XP in addition to later Windows versions.

## 2. Notable Usability Improvements

* **Support for color theme customization for the welcome banner**

    Users can now change the color theme for the welcome banner from the default blue color when DOSBox-X starts. For example, setting "bannercolortheme=red" and "bannercolortheme=white" will apply the red and white color themes for the welcome banner respectively.
* **Support for translating texts in the drop-down menus**

    Translate texts in DOSBox-X's drop-down menus is now supported. The message files as written by the (command-line or graphical) config tool will contain the menu texts for translations from the English language.
* **Support for resolving file paths in config options**

    DOSBox-X will now try to resolve file paths that include environment variables on Windows or tildes (~) on other platforms for config options in various sections in the config file. For example, by setting and resolving environment variables in the [config] option you will be able to access Windows environment variables inside DOSBox-X.
* **Support for getting/changing more properties from command-line**

    You can now change properties such as "fullscreen", "glshader" and "windowposition" dynamically with CONFIG command, e.g. "config -set fullscreen=true". Also, special properties such as "screenwidth", "screenheight", "windowwidth", and "windowheight" are now supported by CONFIG command so that commands like "CONFIG -GET screenwidth" and "CONFIG -GET screenheight" will get the current screen width and height.
* **Selecting a video system output from Windows installer**

    With the recent new output options, a new page is added to the Windows installer for new users to select a video system output to use - the default output (Direct3D), OpenGL with pixel-perfect scaling (openglpp or "OpenGL perfect") for improved image quality, and the TrueType font (TTF) output for text-mode DOS applications.
* **Supply ZIP/7Z files as a DOSBox-X parameter to mount as C drive**

    You can now just supply a ZIP/7Z file as a command-line parameter to DOSBox-X directly so that it will be mounted as C: drive when DOSBox-X starts, instead of using MOUNT command.
* **BOOT command (without a parameter) to boot from the current drive**

    If the current drive (A:/C:/D:) is bootable then BOOT command without a parameter will now try to boot the guest system from the current drive.
* **Menu option "List Printer Devices" to list printers on Windows**

    There is now a menu option "List Printer Devices" under the "Help" menu to list printing devices on Windows, which makes it easier for users to specify a printer if needed.
* **Improved display for Windows and Command keys in SDL1 builds**

    The Windows key(s) in Windows and the Command key(s) in macOS will now be displayed as the "Windows" and "Command" keys instead of the "super" and the "meta" keys in SDL1 builds just like SDL2 builds.

## 3. Bugfixes and Other Improvements

There are also many bugfixes and other improvements, including fixes to some existing features (e.g. the menu option "Select OpenGL (GLSL) shader.." might not work properly sometimes) and ported recent DOSBox SVN commits. Please see the full changelogs below for more information.

## 4. Full Changelog In This Version
*   The Windows key(s) in Windows and the Command key(s)
    in macOS will now be displayed as the "Windows" and
    "Command" keys instead of the "super" and the "meta"
    keys in SDL1 builds just like SDL2 builds. (Wengier)
*   Cursor blinking rate for TrueType font (TTF) output
    can now be customized with the ttf.blinkc option.
    Set an integer between 1 (fastest) and 7 (slowest)
    to change TTF cursor blinking rate, or setting it to
    0 for no cursor (or false for non-blinking cursor as
    in previous versions), with the default value being
    6 on PC-98 systems and 4 elsewhere. (Wengier)
*   Fixed parallel port emulation to allow MDA port 3BCh
    to work properly.
*   Enhanced the printer function on Windows platforms
    to allow printer names to be specified in [printer]
    section via the "device" option for direct printing
    to the selected device. If left empty, then Windows
    Print dialog will always be shown, or specifying "-"
    will cause it to show only once (unless the user
    clicks "Cancel"). Under "Help" menu there is now a
    menu option "List Printer Devices" to list printer
    devices on Windows, and the parallel port LPT1 now
    defaults to the printer on all platforms. (Wengier)
*   The dynamic_x86 CPU core can now handle page faults
    non-recursively, so you can now run the dynamic_x86
    core with Windows 9x/ME without crashes, although
    this may slightly decrease the performance, and it
    may be disabled by setting the config option "use
    dynamic core with paging on" in [cpu] section to
    "false"; the default value of this option has been
    changed to "auto" which will enable/disable itself
    based on whether the 386 paging and a guest system
    has been enabled. Also fixed incorrect behavior for
    handling trap flags in the dynamic core and updated
    the MMX code for improved performance. (koolkdev)
*   Added support for Direct3D output on Windows SDL2
    builds just like Windows SDL1 builds to become the
    default output in all Windows builds. (Wengier)
*   DOSBox-X now natively supports the pixel-perfect
    scaling! Set the option "output=openglpp" in [sdl]
    section of the config file to enable this output.
    Alternatively, the output can be selected from the
    menu ("Video" => "Output" => "OpenGL perfect") at
    run-time. It is recommended to set config options
    and "aspect=true" (whenever the emulated display
    has an aspect ratio of 4:3) and "doublescan=false"
    for openglpp output. Also, with high DPI displays
    (e.g. on Windows 7+ with DPI scaling enabled) it
    works better with full-screen mode and the setting
    "dpi aware=true". It was implemented by ant_222
    (patch author) with some code cleanups by Wengier.
*   Updated the Windows installer to add a page for
    new users to select a video system output to use -
    the default output (Direct3D), OpenGL with pixel-
    perfect scaling (openglpp or "OpenGL perfect") for
    improved image quality, and the TrueType font (TTF)
    output for text-mode DOS applications. (Wengier)
*   You can now supply a ZIP/7Z file as a parameter to
    DOSBox-X directly so that it will be mounted as C:
    drive when DOSBox-X starts. (Wengier)
*   Added overlay support for mounting PhysFS drives
    so that you can specify a write location when you
    mounted a ZIP/7Z archive by adopting an old patch.
    For example, command "MOUNT C C:\DIR -T OVERLAY"
    will specify path C:\DIR(\C_DRIVE) as the write
    location after mounting C: drive as a PhysFS drive
    with a command like "MOUNT FILES.ZIP". (Wengier)
*   Added ability to resolve file paths that include
    environment variables on Windows or tildes (~) on
    other platforms for various options in the config
    file, such as language and mapper file paths, MT32
    ROM & FluidSynth soundfont paths, [config] section
    options as well as file outputs for the printing
    and serial/parallel port functions. (Wengier)
*   Added calculator for DOS (EVAL.EXE), which appears
    on Z drive and can calculate both simple (such as
    sin(0) and cos(0)) and many advanced mathematical
    expressions in either command-line mode and or the
    interactive mode. (Wengier)
*   Added support for standard (VGA/EGA/CGA) and mono
    mode dual-screen setup by porting the patch. You
    can now start DOSBox-X with the option -display2
    followed by a color (white, green, amber) to enable
    this feature on debug builds. (Wengier)
*   You can now translate texts in DOSBox-X's drop-down
    menus. The message files as written by the config
    tool (CLI or GUI) will contain the menu texts for
    translations from the English language. (Wengier)
*   Added "file access tries" config option (in [dos]
    section) so that if a positive integer is provided
    (e.g. 1 or 3) DOSBox-X will try to read/write/lock
    files on mounted local drives for the specified
    number of times before failing on Windows builds.
    It is especially useful for networked DOS database
    applications that require record locking. (Wengier)
*   Added "bannercolortheme" config option (in [dosbox]
    section) so that users can change the background
    color theme of the welcome banner from the default
    blue color when DOSBox-X starts. (Wengier)
*   Added "pcaptimeout" config option (in the [ne2000]
    section) to specify a read timeout value for pcap
    in milliseconds, or default value (-1 on Windows
    or 3000 otherwise) will be used. (Wengier & Jookia)
*   Added "Save & Restart" button to the Configuration
    Tool's "Save" option for saving the config file and
    then automatically restarting DOSBox-X with this
    saved configuration. Command-line options -wcboot,
    -wcdboot and -wcpboot are added to CONFIG command
    which resemble -wc, -wcd, and -wcp options but will
    reboot DOSBox-X after writing configfile. Command-
    line option -bc (-bootconf) is also added to reboot
    with specified config file (or the primary loaded
    config file if not specified) directly. (Wengier)
*   The config option ttf.font will now search for TTF
    fonts in the directory as specified by the fontpath
    option in [printer] section too. (Wengier)
*   Added special properties to CONFIG command such as
    "screenwidth", "screenheight", "windowwidth", and
    "windowheight" so that commands like "CONFIG -GET
    screenwidth" and "CONFIG -GET screenheight" will
    get the current screen width and height. (Wengier)
*   BOOT command without a parameter will now try to
    boot the current drive if possible. (Wengier)
*   You can now change properties such as "fullscreen",
    "glshader" and "windowposition" dynamically with
    CONFIG command. For example, command "config -set
    fullscreen=true" and "config -set windowposition="
    will now switch on the full-screen mode and center
    the window position respectively. For TrueType font
    output, you can now also change the TTF font, the
    number of rows and columns on the TTF screen, and
    the word processor for TTF dynamically using CONFIG
    command, e.g. "config -set ttf.font=test", "config
    -set ttf.lins=30", "config -set ttf.cols=100" and
    "config -set ttf.wp=wp". The limits for the options
    ttf.cols and ttf.lins are increased too. (Wengier)
*   Implemented the DOS network redirector functions so
    that the host name can be reported to DOS programs,
    unless the secure mode is enabled. You may need to
    set either the option ipx=true in [ipx] section or
    the option ne2000=true in [ne2000] section. Also
    added config option "network redirector" to [dos]
    section which if set to false disables the network
    redirector even with IPX/NE2000 enabled. (Wengier)
*   Fixed an issue that the DOSBox-X window size may be
    incorrect when restoring from a maximized window in
    the SDL2 builds. (Wengier)
*   Fixed that the menu option "Select OpenGL (GLSL)
    shader.." not working properly sometimes. (Wengier)
*   Fixed Ctrl+C not working in GNU ed. (Wengier)
*   Fixed large ISO images (>2GB) unable to be mounted
    using IMGMOUNT command. (Wengier)
*   Fixed build failure on Gentoo Linux. (fonic)
*   3dfx games can now work with the Glide passthrough
    feature when a guest system (guest DOS or Windows
    9x) is currently running. The default setting for
    config option "keep private area on boot" in [dos]
    section is changed from "false" to "auto". (Wengier)
*   Improved the speed of the Voodoo hardware emulation
    for running games like Tomb Raider 3dfx. (Wengier)
*   Improved OPL3Duo support, such as adding a buffer
    thread to get rid of slowdowns & breakups in audio
    playback when using the board. (DhrBaksteen)
*   Updated the Tiny File Dialog library to the latest
    version v3.8.5, which fixes issues such as the
    compatibility problem with Windows XP. (Wengier)
*   Updated FLAC, MP3, and WAV CD-DA decoder libraries
    to the latest versions (0.12.28, 0.6.26 and 0.12.18
    respectively; per David Reid). (Wengier)
*   Integrated SVN commits (Allofich & Wengier)
    - r4426: Emulate debug register 6 during trap flag
        emulation (and normal int 1). Fixes 544 (jmarsh)
    - r4401: Improve xchg to handle unwritable memory
        better for core_dyn_x86.
    - r4399: Finish up and add LOOP_NE and LOOP_E for
        core_dyn_x86.
    - r4393: Remove video page check when drawing
        internal mouse pointer, as the BIOS current page
        is not updated in some cases. Fixes QQP games: Lost
        Admiral, Conquered Kingdoms, and Solitaire's
        Journey. Also be a bit smarter about enabling
        autolock, supporting more cases where the mouse
        is used for input without resetting it.
    - r4392: Improve capturing of Zeliard and fix a
        few percussion-related capturing problems as well.
    - r4310: Improve PMAKE on big endian machines and
        fix some bugs. Fixes bug in 16 -> 15 bit color
        conversion.
    - r4309: Copy working directory when mounting an
        overlay.
    - r4307: Refinement of SoundBlaster checks, so no
        IRQ is raised when not in autodma mode.