---
slug: 0.83.25
date: "May 1, 2022"
---

*   XGA: Do not register XGA I/O ports unless emulating
    S3 chipset (such as machine=svga_s3) (joncampbell123)
*   Menu options "Force scaler" and "Print text screen"
    can now be assigned to keyboard shortcuts from the
    Mapper Editor. (Wengier)
*   Allowed to boot from Toshiba DOS image file for the
    Toshiba J-3100 emulation. (nanshiki)
*   Default S3 machine types now support XGA/SXGA VText
    in DOS/V, in addition to svga_et4000. (nanshiki)
*   Added "j3100backcolor" and "j300textcolor" config
    options (in [dosv] section) to specify background
    and text colors in J-3100 mode. (nanshiki)
*   Added config option "aspect_ratio" (in [render]
    section) which when set will force the specified
    aspect ratio (e.g. 16:9 or 3:2) in the aspect ratio
    correction mode (i.e. aspect=true). A menu group
    "Aspect ratio" is added to "Video" menu for users
    to select or set an aspect ratio, including an
    original ratio option. (Wengier)
*   Added config option "show recorded filename" (in
    [dosbox] section) which when set to true (default)
    will show message boxes with recorded filenames
    when making audio or video captures. (Wengier)
*   Added config option "allow quit after warning" (in
    [dosbox] section) which when set to false DOSBox-X
    will disallow the quit option after displaying a
    warning message. (Wengier)
*   Added config option "turbo last second" (in [cpu]
    section) which allows to stop the Turbo function
    after specified number of seconds. (Wengier)
*   Updated FLAC, MP3, and WAV decoder libraries to the
    latest versions (v0.12.38, v0.6.32, and v0.13.6)
    respectively; per David Reid). (Wengier)
*   Added support for upper case characters (A-Z) for
    AUTOTYPE command. (kcgen)
*   Added /T option for CHOICE command to set a default
    choice as in DOS, e.g. CHOICE /T:Y,3 (Wengier)
*   Added Korean language option in Windows installer.
    Also, language option page will be shown regardless
    of the output option selected. (Wengier)
*   Add stub INT 10h handler at F000:F065 if
    machine=vgaonly and using a VGA ROM BIOS image.
    The IBM VGA ROM BIOS image points INT 42h at that
    fixed address and calls it for any function it does
    not understand. (joncampbell123)
*   Set int33 event status bit 8 when passing absolute
    mouse coordinates, which is useful in emulation or
    virtualization environments where the mouse may be
    integrated with the host cursor. (javispedro)
*   Added support for Pentium Pro hinting NOPs and
    related multi-byte NOPs. (Jookia)
*   Updated HX DOS Extender to latest version 2.19 for
    HX-DOS builds. (Wengier)
*   DOSBox-X returns 1 instead of 0 when E_Exit occurs
    or unit tests fail. (Wengier)
*   Fixed built-in IPX and Modem emulation unavailable
    in MinGW builds. (Wengier)
*   Fixed -machine command-line option (as listed by
    "INTRO USAGE" command) not working. (Wengier)
*   Fixed lockup in classic Jumpman. (maron2000)
*   Fixed color in some modes under x86-64 macOS SDL2
    builds. (myon98)
*   Fixed extra INT 10h call during BIOS screen. The
    extra call caused crashes when combined with a ROM
    image of the stock IBM VGA BIOS. (joncampbell123)
*   Fixed fscale FPU operation and updated FPU status
    word. Also fixed FPU stack value log messages on
    x86-based builds. (cimarronm)
*   Fixed bug that OpenGL Voodoo window may not appear
    correctly if the DOSBox-X window was previously in
    full-screen mode in some builds. DOSBox-X will now
    ensure a switch to window mode (or maximized window
    mode) in this case. Also fixed some menu options
    including rebooting DOSBox-X while Voodoo emulation
    is currently active. (Wengier)
*   Fixed crash when switching to dynamic_rec core from
    menu when dynamic_x86 is also available. Also fixed
    the dynamic_rec core may not be displayed correctly
    in the menu when a language file is used. (Wengier)
*   Fixed Windows resource information. (Wengier)
*   Fixed a buffer overflow when launching a program.
    (Jookia)
*   Fixed bug where DOS IOCTL would call device control
    channel on devices which did not advertise support
    for IOCTL. (cimarronm)
*   Clean up of DOS device and attribute flag usage
    (cimarronm)
*   Integrated commits from mainline (Allofich)
    - Use real pointer with font data for reading
    characters. Also ignore page number for modes with
    only one page.