---
slug: 0.83.13
date: April 30, 2021
---

*   DOSBox-X can now resolve file paths in its config
    options that include environment variables on non-
    Windows platforms (e.g. ${HOME}..) as well. A new
    config option "resolve config path" (in [dosbox]
    section) is added to control path resolving in the
    config file (e.g. to resolve tildes only by setting
    to "tilde", or disable all path resolving). (Wengier)
*   System menu text in Windows builds now match the text
    in the drop-down menus to be translatable by language
    files and is compatible with Unicode. (Wengier)
*   The error "Access Denied" is returned instead of
    "File not found" for files opened exclusively in
    another program on mounted local drives. (Wengier)
*   S386C928 hardware cursor fixed to divide X coordinate
    by bytes per pixel indicated in the control register
    to match apparent Windows 3.1/95 behavior. Cursor
    now tracks host properly even in highcolor/truecolor
    modes.
*   Added support for the RetroWave OPL3 hardware player.
    Set "oplemu=retrowave_opl3" in [sblaster] section of
    the config file to use it. Config options including
    "retrowave_bus", "retrowave_spi_cs", "retrowave_port"
    are added to adjust its settings. (ClassicOldSong)
*   Added support for S386C928 hardware cursor color
    selection in 256-color mode, which is different
    from later cards.
*   S3 XGA "BYTE SWP" fixed only to byte swap if the
    transfer is 16-bit wide. This fixes the dither
    pattern drawn by Windows 95/98 when you select
    "Shutdown" from the Start menu.
*   IMGMAKE command is now disabled in the secure mode,
    similar to commands like IMGMOUNT. (Wengier)
*   Added config options "working directory option" and
    "working directory default" in [dosbox] section of
    the config file to provide various options for the
    users to control DOSBox-X's working directory. For
    example, DOSBox-X can use the primary config file
    directory or the DOSBox-X program directory as its
    working directory. You can view the DOSBox-X'safe
    working directory with CONFIG -L command. DOSBox-X
    is also able to save the working directory that a
    user selects to global config files. (Wengier)
*   DOSBox-X will now also try to read the config file
    named dosbox-x.conf in the user config directory
    when searching for config files at start.
*   Added new command-line options -promptfolder and
    -nopromptfolder which will cause the folder prompt
    dialogs to show or not to show at startup.
*   Mac OS X builds will prompt the user to select a
    folder at startup if run from the Finder (or from
    the root directory). The folder selected will then
    become the current working directory of DOSBox-X.
    This makes it possible to start DOSBox-X with a
    config file of your choice and to control where
    the capture, save states and other files go.
*   Fixed Tseng ET4000 640x480 256-color SVGA mode
    when using the ET4000.BIN VGA BIOS, or Windows 98.
*   Added segment limit checks in Normal core for
    MOVSB/MOVSW/MOVSD and STOSB/STOSW/STOSD, which is
    needed for DOSBox-X to work with the Windows 3.1
    S3 86C928 display drivers that use segment limit
    exceptions to fake a linear framebuffer.
*   Added S3 XGA "byte swap" emulation, needed for
    correct menu/titlebar display in Windows 3.1 when
    using the S3 86C928 driver.
*   Added YUV (YUY2) overlay to S3 Trio64V+ card
    emulation. Tested with XingMPEG under Windows 3.1
    and ActiveMovie under Windows 98.
*   Added machine types for 5 different variations of
    S3 chipset: Vision864, Vision868, Trio32, Trio64,
    and (experimental) Trio64V+, ViRGE, ViRGE/VX, and
    S3 86C928.
*   Removed second PCI BAR for S3 MMIO register space.
    S3 datasheets do not show a second BAR. Windows 95
    is perfectly happy without it.
*   S3 SVGA XGA emulation BlitRect now supports
    COLOR_CMP. DirectX-based Windows 95 games are now
    able to blit in 256-color mode with a transparent
    color key value.
*   ANSI.SYS emulaion now supports the "Device Status
    Report" escape when asked through code 6 (report
    cursor position)
*   Fixed RAM mapping bugs related to MDA/CGA/Hercules
    emulation and the "allow more than 640kb" option,
    that failed to map RAM as expected, and because of
    that, easily triggered a "corrupt MCB chain" error
    message.
*   Worked around the mounting issue for disk or CD
    image files with LaunchBox, by allowing a mounting
    command-line with single quotes like IMGMOUNT D
    'X:\FILES\DOS.IMG' on Windows systems. (Wengier)
*   Restored Pentium MMX emulation code for the dynamic
    x86 core to that of version 0.83.11 for better
    compatibility with some Windows 9x games. (Wengier)
*   Added "compresssaveparts" config option (in the
    [dosbox] section) which when set to false will not
    compress the components in saved states. (Wengier)
*   When the current reported DOS version is less than
    7.x and the user tries to mount a LBA or FAT32 disk
    image, DOSBox-X will now show a message to ask if
    the user wants it to set the required DOS version
    automatically and proceed. (Wengier)
*   DOSBox-X will now show the folder mounted after
    mounting to a drive from the menu. (Wengier)
*   Fixed MOUNT and IMGMOUNT commands unable to mount
    directories or image files that contain non-ASCII
    characters in the code page on Windows. (Wengier)
*   Fixed CapsLock may not work properly in Windows
    SDL1 builds when -fs option is used. (Wengier)
*   Fixed the cycle information on the title bar when
    the Turbo mode is enabled. (Wengier)
*   Fixed that some games using the DOS4GW Extender
    may not work due to swap file issue. (Wengier)
*   Fixed that the clipboard copy and paste may not
    work when the current code page is 808 or 872
    and you are using Windows. (Wengier)
*   Fixed the handling of the "Save & Restart" button
    in Configuration Tool when using Direct3D output
    in Windows SDL2 builds. (Wengier)
*   Fixed incorrect display issue when using TrueType
    font (TTF) output with customized screen dimension
    when fastbioslogo=true is set. (Wengier)
*   Fixed CD audio not looping for individual tracks
    in games like Alien Trilogy. (kcgen)
*   The command "MIXER /LISTMIDI" now lists the ROM
    directory/files and sound fonts for MT32, Synth
    and FluidSynth MIDI device when active. (Wengier)
*   Debugger "DOS XMS" command will only list handles
    that are allocated, or with nonzero address or
    nonzero size, to avoid showing irrelevant
    information. (joncampbell123)
*   Added LOADFIX -EMS option to allocate/free
    EMS (expanded memory). (joncampbell123)
*   LOADFIX -D -XMS will free all XMS blocks
    allocated by LOADFIX -XMS. (joncampbell123)
*   LOADFIX -A will not allocate memory unless there
    is memory below 64KB to fill. (joncampbell123)
*   INT 15h PS/2 mouse functions now clear pending
    PS/2 mouse interrupt as part of the BIOS call.
    This should resolve unresponsive mouse issues
    with Windows 3.1. (joncampbell123)
*   Add config option "mt32.model" in the [midi]
    section to force a MT-32 model to use. (Wengier)
*   Updated the MUNT MT-32 library to the latest
    version 2.5.0. (Wengier)
*   Updated FLAC decoder library to the latest version
    (0.12.29 by David Reid). (Wengier)
*   Integrated SVN commits (Allofich)
    - r4436, r4437: Rewrite store integer instructions
        to check if the result fits. (vogons 78127)
    - r4447: Attribute Controller port alias on EGA
        machine. Fixes EGA display of older Super Pac-Man
        release.