---
slug: 0.83.19
date: November 1, 2021
---

*   Reorganized the "List network interfaces" and "List
    printer devices" dialogs (under the "Help" menu) to
    allow the use of scroll bars. (Wengier)
*   Added menu option "Reset TTF color scheme" to reset
    the current color scheme for TTF output. (Wengier)
*   Added config option "righttoleft" in [TTF] section
    which when set to "true" will cause DOSBox-X to
    display text from right to left (instead of left to
    right) for the TTF output. It can also be toggled
    from the menu ("Video" => "TTF options" => "Display
    text from right to left"). (Wengier)
*   Added config option "vga fill active memory" which
    when set to "true" will fill inactive video memory
    regions with RAM rather than mapping them as empty.
    This allows the ETen Chinese DOS system (倚天中文系統)
    3.5/2000 (e.g. ET16V and ET24VA) to run. (Wengier)
*   Added config option "middle_unlock" ([sdl] section)
    to control whether to unlock the mouse with middle
    mouse button click. (Wengier)
*   Added config option "dosvfunc" in [ttf] section to
    support DOS/V applications when country information
    is set to Japan in TTF output. (nanshiki)
*   Added "VTEXT" command to view or change the current
    V-text mode for the DOS/V emulation. Also improved
    the font support for 24-pixel font DOS/V mode, such
    as supporting HZK24? fonts for Simplified Chinese
    DOS/V mode and STDFONT.24 from ETen Chinese system
    for Traditional Chinese DOS/V mode. If a Chinese
    font is specified via "fontxdbcs", "fontxdbcs14" or
    "fontxdbcs24" options, it will be loaded before
    system font even with "getsysfont=true". (Wengier)
*   Commands like 80x25, 80x43, ... now use internal
    function for better compatibility with the TrueType
    font (TTF) output. (Wengier)
*   MODE command without a parameter will now print the
    current lines/columns instead of usage. (Wengier)
*   INTVEC debugger command now correctly outputs
    addresses when in protected mode. (Allofich)
*   Fix horizontal lines in the debugger window being
    rendered as unrelated characters in some code
    pages. (Allofich)
*   INT 21 AX=4B03 now sets AX to 0000 like MS-DOS
    does. Fixes missing music in "聊齋誌異之幽谷傳奇"
    (Liáozhāi zhì yì zhī yōugǔ chuánqí) (Allofich)
*   Use 0x1E to 0x3E for the keyboard buffer of the CGA
    machine, which fixes the controls locking up in the
    PC booter version of Apple Panic. (Allofich)
*   Allowed machine types "pcjr_composite" and
    "pcjr_composite2", similar to "cga_composite" and
    "cga_composite2", instead of having to switch the
    composite type manually. (Wengier)
*   If machine is PCjr, place PC BIOS reset code at
    F000:0043 to match that of the real BIOS.
*   Fix PCjr NMI handler to load DS with segment 0x0040.
    Fixes crashes in SHAMUS. (Allofich)
*   Fix PCjr NMI handler to use 8086-level instructions
    when loading DS with segment 0x0040 so that it
    works properly with cputype=8086.
*   Remove useless check for signed divide quotient
    of 0x80/0x8000/etc. (the result was -0x80/0x8000/etc
    anyway. Add code to check specifically for these
    values after signed divide if cputype=8086 and
    trigger divide overflow exception, to match behavior
    described for the 8086 processor.
*   Modify exception handling so that for cputype=8086
    the return address for an exception handler points
    at instruction after fault location.
*   Fix IDIV instruction incorrectly raising a divide
    error exception for some borderline values. Fixes
    Microsoft Flight Simulator. (Allofich)
*   IBM PC BIOS emulation fixed to place key pieces of
    code and entry points at fixed legacy locations
    required by some older DOS games, instead of
    by dynamic allocation. Added code to BIOS allocation
    to reserve F000:E000 or higher for fixed allocation
    and force dynamic allocation below that address to
    prevent further conflicts should others submit
    pull requests for additional fixed locations. This
    fixes some games like "聊齋誌異之幽谷傳奇" (Liáozhāi
    zhì yì zhī yōugǔ chuánqí) which appear to assume
    some of these fixed BIOS addresses and will
    crash if they are wrong.
*   Added tool EMSMAGIC.COM as alternative EMS manager,
    which can be dynamically installed or uninstalled
    with the setting ems=false. (Wengier)
*   If a program is provided in the command-line when
    launching DOSBox-X, it will now be executed after
    any commands in the [autoexec] section by default.
    A command-line option "-prerun" is added to force
    the program run before any commands in [autoexec]
    section like before. (Wengier)
*   Added auto-detection for single-wide DBCS-encoded
    characters for the TTF output (non-PC98). (Wengier)
*   Improved the menu option "Restart DOSBox-X with
    language file..." (under "Main") for switching
    between DBCS languages. (Wengier)
*   Disabled the Alt+F4 key for closing the DOSBox-X
    window in MinGW SDL2 builds. (Wengier)
*   Fixed program or config file containing Unicode
    characters passed from command-line when launching
    DOSBox-X in Windows SDL2 builds. (Wengier)
*   Fixed issue with DELETE key in PC-98 mode. (Wengier)
*   Fixed COLORS config option (in [ttf] section) not
    working in the previous version. (Wengier)
*   Fixed issues after resetting the virtual machine
    when using DBCS language files. (Wengier)
*   Fixed some issues related to system IME support for
    CJK (Chinese/Japanese/Korean) languages, for both
    Windows SDL1 and SDL2 builds. (nanshiki & Wengier)
*   Fixed bugs in the region memory allocator C++ class
    that claimed the entire free block even if the
    size wanted was smaller. Added field to remember if
    the allocated block was allocated for fixed or
    dynamically allocated memory. Cleaned up allocator
    code and removed redundancy.
*   Fix SELINFO command not showing output correctly
    in the debugger window. (Allofich)
*   Better CMOS register B and C emulation. (Allofich)
*   Integrated commits from mainline (Allofich)
    - Support for DMF floppy disk images.
    - Zero-out DX in EXEC overlay command.
    - Improve stack check for wrap-around cases.
        Change to misc_output for SVGA_S3Trio.