---
slug: 0.83.22
date: "January 31, 2022"
---

*   Added Pentium 3 Processor Serial Number emulation.
    Serial number can be set from dosbox-x.conf or not
    set, in which case it will act as if disabled by the
    BIOS. (joncampbell123).
*   Added Pentium III cputype, added SSE register set,
    added SSE instructions to debugger disassembler,
    added some initial SSE instructions. (joncampbell123)
*   Added some MSRs expected by Linux, Windows, and
    tools like CPU-Z to make them happy. (joncampbell123)
*   Added FXSAVE/FXRSTOR which makes Linux happy with
    Pentium III emulation. (joncampbell123)
*   Allow WRMSR to set time stamp counter, as it is known
    though undocumented a standard since the Pentium
    (joncampbell123).
*   Added debugger command to show global and per-voice
    status of the Gravis Ultrasound emulation. May come
    in handy for programmers who wish to write their own
    GUS routines, and for Trixter who brought up the
    subject of determining whether a program plays music
    with the GUS or treats it like a dumb sound card.
    (joncampbell123).
*   Added debugger command to show SSE register file, and
    to set SSE register contents. (joncampbell123)
*   Added debugger command to show MMX register file, and
    to set MMX register contents. (joncampbell123)
*   Added support for expressions within parenthesis in
    debugger expression handling. (joncampbell123)
*   Added & (AND), ^ (XOR), and | (OR) operators, and
    << and >> bit shift operators to debugger expression
    handling. (joncampbell123)
*   Added multiply (*) and divide (/) operators to debugger
    expression handling. Order of operations applies, so
    given mixed addition and multiplication, the multiply
    is done first then the result is added. Also added
    support for the modulo (%) operator to the debugger
    expression handling. (joncampbell123)
*   Revised debugger expression handling to correctly
    parse arithmetic operators with order of operations
    in mind. Prior to this fix, consecutive subtraction
    would cause seemingly illogical results, for example
    "10-1-1-1" would yield "9" instead of "7" because
    subtraction was handled in the wrong order. This fix
    also makes mixed addition and subtraction possible.
    NOTICE: Remember that all numbers going in and
    coming out of the expression handler are hexadecimal,
    NOT decimal! (joncampbell123)
*   Fixed simple expression handling in the debugger.
    Revised hexadecimal vs register parsing so that
    hexadecimal numbers that happen to start with
    the name of certain CPU flag registers does not
    cause confusing results. Prior to this fix,
    hexadecimal numbers like "dfe" or "af0" were
    impossible to enter without leading zeros or
    quotes because the parser would confuse the
    first digits with the DF and AF bits of the FLAGS
    register. (joncampbell123)
*   Added menu options "AMD Athlon 600MHz" and "Pentium
    III 866MHz EB" within the group "Emulate CPU speed"
    (under "CPU") for CPU speeds to emulate. (Wengier)
*   Added support for archive, hidden, system attributes
    on mounted local and overlay drives for non-Windows
    platforms by using special file(s). (Wengier)
*   Added config option "special operation file prefix"
    (in [dos] section) to speciay an alterantive file
    prefix for DOSBox-X's special operations on mounted
    local and overlay drives. (Wengier)
*   Added code page 3021 for the MIK character set used
    by the Bulgarian language (as in FreeDOS). (Wengier)
*   Added language file for the Brazilian Portuguese,
    available from Windows installer. (altiereslima)
*   For piping (|), DOSBox-X will now also try C: drive
    as a temporary piping path if current directory is
    read-only and the environment variable %TEMP% (or
    %TMP%) is not set. (Wengier)
*   For clipboard copy, CR+LF will now be used instead
    of LF on Windows for better compatibility. (Wengier)
*   Disk images are automatically mounted as read-only
    (instead of failing) now if the image files are
    read-only and the users do not explicitly specify
    read-only mode for the disk images. (Wengier)
*   The default value of config option "autofixwarning"
    (in [dos] section) is now "false", and it is now
    changeable via CONFIG command. (Wengier)
*   The default output for Linux SDL1 builds is changed
    from opengl to surface, unlike Linux SDL2 builds
    whose default output remains opengl. (Wengier)
*   Native Windows menus is supported in Windows SDL2
    builds just like Windows SDL1 builds. It is possible
    to force SDL-drawn menus for both Windows SDL1 and
    SDL2 builds at compile time. (Wengier)
*   Setting "windowposition" to "-" in the configuration
    will leave DOSBox-X window position as is instead of
    a specific position or being centered. (Wengier)
*   For printing, the SarasaGothicFixed TTF font will
    also be searched for DBCS code pages. (Wengier)
*   Added config option "showdbcsnodosv" (in the [dosv]
    section) which when set to true enables rendering of
    Chinese/Japanese/Korean characters for DBCS code
    pages in non-DOS/V, non-PC98, and non-TTF mode.
    Video capturing started from TTF output will enable
    DBCS characters when possible. (Wengier)
*   Changing DBCS code pages is supported for standard
    modes (i.e. non-DOS/V, non-PC98 and non-TTF modes)
    using CHCP command. (Wengier)
*   Fixed issues with certain DBCS characters for the
    DOS/V system. (Wengier)
*   Fixed slow blinking text in TTF output. (Wengier)
*   Fixed copying box drawing characters to clipboard
    not working in non-TTF JEGA mode. (Wengier)
*   Fixed background for the Configuration Tool when
    the TTF output is active. (Wengier)
*   Fixed DBCS characters not showing up when capturing
    screenshots in TTF CJK mode, or they do not show up
    properly in the Configuration Tool when "autodbcs"
    is set to "false" in the configuration. (Wengier)
*   Fixed media keys presses by ignoring these keys in
    Windows SDL1 builds. (maron2000)
*   Fixed IOCTL & ASPI interfaces for mounting physical
    CD drives on the Windows platform. (Wengier)
*   Fixed the issue of loading scalers in the previous
    version. A message box will only show up if you
    append "prompt" to the scaler option. (Wengier)