---
slug: 0.84.3
date: "September 1, 2022"
version_secondary: "2022.09.0"
---

*   Added 86PCM support for PC-98 emulation. (nanshiki)
*   Added German language translation. (Link-Mario)
*   Added code page 867 (compatible with Hebrew DOS
    WordPerfect) and 868 (Urdu) for the guest-to-host
    code page conversions. (Wengier)
*   Improved ANSI.SYS detection for the welcome banner
    and CLS command. The command "INTRO WELCOME" will
    re-display the welcome banner without running the
    commands in AUTOEXEC.BAT. (Wengier)
*   Improved IME support on macOS SDL2 build. (Wengier)
*   Improved detection for the Chinese/Japanese/Korean
    keyboard layouts on Windows platform. (Wengier)
*   Improved Windows installer for selecting languages
    for the DOS emulator. (Wengier)
*   Improved config option "file access tries" for the
    Linux and macOS platforms. (Wengier)
*   Fixed SafeDisc 2 check for Red Alert 2 by renaming
    the IDE CD-ROM device. (rderooy & psyraven)
*   Fixed problem when inputting characters with call
    INT21/AH=3Fh in PC-98 mode. (nanshiki)
*   Fixed hang on zip-mounted drives and minor bug on
    the DOS file-read code. (tbr)
*   Fixed file copying problem with Windows 9x install
    at the end of the DOS-based Setup. (Wengier)
*   Fixed command like "IF NOT EXIST D:\NUL ..." not
    working if the drive does not exist. (Wengier)
*   Fixed that pasting text from clipboard via mouse
    may not work properly in some cases. (Wengier)
*   Fixed the mouse scrolling wheel not working with
    CTMOUSE 2.1's "CTMOUSE /O" in guest DOS. (Wengier)
*   Fixed window transparency setting not working in
    macOS SDL1 build. (Wengier)
*   Fixed macOS small display issue with the in-tree
    SDL2 library by applying SDL updates. (Wengier)
*   Fixed menu option "Always on top" to work with the
    in-tree SDL2 library on macOS. (Wengier)
*   Fixed the terminal mess-up issue with -display2
    option on Linux and macOS platforms. (Wengier)
*   Fixed OpenGL output options not working in Windows
    ARM32/ARM64 builds. (Wengier)
