---
slug: 0.84.2
date: "August 1, 2022"
version_secondary: "2022.08.0"
---

*   Fill in PC-98 BIOS data area byte value indicating
    CPU type (whether 8086, 286, 386 or higher)
    (Wengier), fill it in at startup (joncampbell123).
*   CHOICE now supports breaking and errors on end of
    file or pipe instead of freezing DOSBox-X. (Jookia)
*   Fixed debugger commands parsing numbers wrong. (Jookia)
*   Fixed DIR crashing on volumes with more than
    999,999,999,999 bytes of free space. (Jookia)
*   Switched to year.month.patch versioning (Jookia)
*   Fix NE2000 panicking if packets are queued too fast.
    (kcgen, Jookia)
*   Fix ISO image format detection to support pure
    UDF formatted images, meaning that the image
    lacks any ISO 9660 features and contains only
    UDF. (joncampbell123).
*   Added support for UDF filesystem to ISO image
    handling. It is enabled by default if emulating
    MS-DOS 7.10 (aka Windows 98) or higher.
    (joncampbell123).
*   Added code to detect Rock Ridge according to the
    System Use Sharing Protocol standard, and to
    read the SUSP entries correctly for the alternate
    name, if enabled. (joncampbell123)
*   Updated ISO MSCDEX drive emulation to scan the
    available volumes in the ISO image rather than
    assume the first volume, which makes Joilet
    support possible if long filenames are enabled
    and the DOS version is 7.0 or higher. (joncampbell123).
*   Add IMGMOUNT -o option for ISO filesystem support
    to enable/disable Joliet extensions, which is a
    Microsoft extension to ISO 9660 where long names
    encoded using Unicode UCS-16 exist as a supplementary
    volume in the ISO image and are used by Windows 95
    and higher to support long filenames on CD-ROM.
    Added support for reading the Joliet volume and
    providing them for both the 8.3 and long filename
    APIs in DOS. (joncampbell123).
*   Add IMGMOUNT -o option for ISO filesystem support
    to enable/disable Rock Ridge long filename support.
    The option is -o rr=1 to enable and -o rr=0 to
    disable. (joncampbell123).
*   Fixed 8.3 name generations on ISO drives with Rock
    Ridge extension. The ISO drives can be refreshed
    via RESCAN command like other drives. (Wengier)
*   SDL_Net support is available for HX-DOS builds,
    similar to other builds. Packet driver is needed
    for network capability in DOS. (Wengier)
*   Fixed line endings when copying to shared clipboard
    (e.g. CLIP$) in non-Windows platforms. (Wengier)
*   Fixed problems with SDL1 Windows builds in which
    the user had to type the Fullscreen mapper shortcut
    twice. It seems a SDL1 library function that is
    used to indicate ignoring or adding a class of
    events also liked to flush the event queue. This
    is called on mode change. This caused lost
    keystrokes, leaving the mapper the impression that
    those keys were still held down. (joncampbell123).
*   Fixed PC-98 mode MS-DOS 7/Windows 9x boot disk's
    80386 CPU check. (Wengier)
*   Added support for auto-converting non-image drives
    (such as mounted local drives) to disk images, so
     that they will be visible when booting into guest
    systems. A config option "convertdrivefat" (in
    [dosbox] section) is added to toggle this setting,
    or you can toggle via BOOT command's -convertfat
    (or -convertfatro option for read-only access) and
    -noconvertfat options. There're also config options
    "convert fat free space" (in [dosbox] section) and
    "drive z convert fat" (in [dos] section) to control
    free space (in MB; 0 means read-only) and whether
    to also convert virtual drive Z:. Much of the code
    is imported from DOSBox Pure, with added support
    for PC-98 HDI and code page conversions. (Wengier)
*   Added menu option "Save to disk image" (under drive
    letter in "Drive" menu) to save a mounted non-FAT
    drive to selected disk image (IMG/HDI). (Wengier)
*   Added the "Limit disk transfer speed" menu group
    (under "DOS") to toggle the hard & floppy disk data
    rate function. Also moved "Quick launch program..."
    menu from "DOS" menu to "Main" menu. (Wengier)
*   Added code pages 856 (Hebrew) and 859 (Latin 9) for
    the guest-to-host code page conversions. (Wengier)
*   Added config option to allow create of temporary
    devices for piping operations when a temporary DOS
    path is not available. (Wengier)
*   Added support for ATAPI raw sector reading with
    READ CD command. (schellingb)
*   Report bad sectors recorded in raw CD images as
    ATAPI read errors. (schellingb)
*   You can use CONFIG -set langcp=... to change the
    current language along with the embedded code page,
    or CHCP nnn:... to specify a language file as well,
    e.g. "CHCP 932:" or "CHCP 932:ja_JP" for Japanese
    code page and language file. Also improved -langcp
    option for SBCS code pages, and Windows installer
    will additionally set keyboard layouts for the
    selected languages. (Wengier)
*   Changed menu option "Restart DOSBox-X with language
    file..." to "Load language file..." for loading
    language files without rebooting DOSBox-X, unless
    a guest system is currently running. (Wengier)
*   Imported the more recent MBR code from FreeDOS to
    avoid the "boot menu" as in older code. (Wengier)
*   When changing TTF font, DOSBox-X will try to show
    the number of missing characters in the new TTF
    font (if any). (Wengier)
*   Fixed color becoming darker after changing TTF font
    multiples times in TTF output. (Wengier)
*   Fixed display of individual/total file sizes with
    DIR command when they are very large. (Wengier)
*   Fixed non-US code page conversions for mounted FAT
    drives. (Wengier)
*   Fixed incorrect message displays in Configuration
    Tool and Mapper Editor when booting into guest
    systems with language files. (Wengier)
*   Fixed possible "Path not found" bug when switching
    to code page 950 from another code page. (Wengier)
*   Fixed creating directories may not work properly
    for overlay drives on Windows systems. (Wengier)
*   Fixed -set and -get options of CONFIG command when
    there are spaces in property names, without having
    to prepend the section names. For example, command
    CONFIG -get "synchronize time" is supported just
    as CONFIG -get "dosbox synchronize time". Similar
    for -SET option when launching DOSBox-X. (Wengier)