---
slug: 2023.09.01
date: "Sept. 1, 2023"
---

- Disable by default message confirmation after snapshot and AVI video
  capture, but leave the option there for those who want to enable it (joncampbell123).
- Remove "LOG: Logging output has been disabled." output when -nolog
  is specified on the command line (joncampbell123).
- Fix stuck Ins key problems by fixing a typo in src/ints/bios_keyboard.cpp.
  The code is supposed to clear the "Ins key down" flag, but instead cleared
  all bits EXCEPT "Ins key down" (joncampbell123).
- NE2000 macaddr default is now "random", which instructs the NE2000
  hardware at startup to pick a random MAC address. (joncampbell123).
- IPX: If NE2000 and IPX are enabled, and an IPX tunneling connection is
  active, and the user boots a guest OS, switch on a mode where all IPX
  packets going to and coming from the guest are re-routed through the
  IPX tunnel instead of to the NE2000 ethernet backend. This feature
  makes it possible to play IPX-based games in a guest OS like MS-DOS
  and Windows 95. (joncampbell123).
- IPX: Add extension to server to allow clients to register their own
  MAC address instead of using the default MAC address given by their
  IP address and port number. The extension is designed so that if DOSBox-X
  is a client to another DOSBox fork's IPX tunneling server, it will
  be ignored and DOSBox-X will get the usual MAC address instead. This
  extension is required for guest OSes to be able to use the IPX protocol
  through the NE2000 card given upcoming code changes as they normally
  use the network card MAC address when picking an IPX address because
  the IPX interface is not available once booted into a guest OS. (joncampbell123).
- IPX client: If both IPX and NE2000 emulation are enabled, IPX emulation
  will use the NE2000 card's MAC address instead. It will use the IPX
  server DOSBox-X extension to try. If it doesn't work, then the normal
  MAC address assignment is accepted without complaint. (joncampbell123).
- NE2000: Add "nothing" backend. It receives nothing and send packets go
  nowhere. If no other backend is available, this backend is a fallback
  so that at least the NE2000 emulation can work. The other purpose of
  a nothing callback is to give NE2000 something to talk to for those
  who wish to use the upcoming IPX packet redirection to link DOS and
  Windows games over the IPX client or server connection to other
  instances of DOSBox. (joncampbell123)
- Added record function to capture NE2000 network traffic to a
  pcap/Wireshark file in the capture directory. (joncampbell123)
- Fixed bug where guest VM reset causes the CMOS to stop ticking for
  exactly the amount of time it was running before reset. (joncampbell123)
- Added alarm interrupt function to RTC CMOS emulation (joncampbell123)
- Reverted DOS to using the BIOS_DATA tick count for time and the cached
  copy of date it keeps internally, rather than always calling INT 1Ah.
  It turns out that is how DOS actually behaves, which is also why it is
  possible for the DOS and CMOS RTC to diverge. Fix CMOS emulation to
  allow get/set time and to run in emulation time, not real time, though
  the clock starts from the host time. (joncampbell123)
- Fixed VHD disk image calculation of footer position and, thus, of newly
  allocated block position. (maxpat78)
- Enhanced Dynamic and Differencing VHD support #4273 (maxpat78)
- Imported IBM Music Feature Card support from DOSBox Staging. (Allofich)
- Fix IMGMAKE large size image error on MinGW builds (maron2000) 
- Set usescancodes=true when non-US keyboards are detected. (Linux / MacOS 
  builds) (maron2000)
- Fix day of week detection (INT 21h function 0x2Ah). (maron2000)
- Refine KEYB and CHCP command (maron2000)
- Use segment descriptor's big flag (if present) when disassembling code in
  the debugger code view (cimarronm)
- Add decoding of rdmsr/wrmsr instructions to disassembler (cimarronm)
- Fix disassembly for far jmp/call decoding (cimarronm)
- Fix memory limits on expand-down segment descriptors (cimarronm)
- Bump tinyfiledialog to ver 3.13.3 (maron2000)
- Fix mouse column limit on text mode (issue #4353) (maron2000)
- Fix Blocek launching failure (issue #4385) (maron2000)
- Bump in-tree FreeType library to ver 2.13.1 (maron2000)
- Enable debugger function for MinGW builds (maron2000)
