---
slug: 2025.05.03
date: May 3, 2025
---
2025.05.03
  - Show TURBO status in title bar. (maron2000)
  - Fixed MinGW32 builds failed using gcc15, due to a conflict in __inline__ 
    macro. (lazka)
  - Revise EGA/VGA emulation to treat the CRTC CGA/Hercules
    CRTC bit remapping as bits to mask out, instead of defining
    the upper limit of the memory mask. This makes the CGA mode
    Engine page flipping test work. I initially had reservations
    about whether or not real hardware did this, but, it would
    make sense for hardware to do it that way. (joncampbell123)
  - Updated libpng to version 1.6.47 (maron2000)
  - Updated XCOPY to version 1.9a (maron2000)
  - Updated SDL2 library to version 2.32.4 (maron2000)
  - Fixed a build/install error due to using wildcards in Makefile.am, which is
    not supported in GNU Automake. (maron2000)
  - macOS: Install SDL2_net in CI workflow to enable internal modem support on
    Release and Nightly SDL2 builds. (maron2000)
  - Fixed buffer size to allocate missing byte for string terminator for 
    savestate filename to prevent buffer overflow (arifogel)
  - Fixed settings of yellow color in COLOR command (maron2000)
  - Fixed COLOR command to match behavior on Windows (maron2000)
  - Fixed INT21h AH=0a cursor position moved by bell due to keyboard buffer full
    (maron2000)
  - Fixed INT21h AH=01 echo behavior (maron2000)
  - Replaced SetPixel with DIB Section Direct Memory Access for faster printing
    (DwayneSelsig)
  - Fixed creation of overlay special files (zyebytevt)
  - PC-98 mode: Add INT 18h function AH=10h to control cursor blink.
    Emulate documented side effect in that this call also hides the
    cursor. The PC-98 port of Lemmings will no longer show a blinking
    black box in the lower left corner. (joncampbell123)
  - Fixed Host key (F11, F12) handling in Codepage 932 (Japanese Shift-JIS).
    (maron2000)
  - Bumped ESFMu to ver 1.2.6 (maron2000)
  - Fixed regression of adding a dot to CD labels when longer than 8 characters,
    required for games such as Descent 2 CD installer (maron2000)
  - Added Modeswitch toggle option (DieSkaarj)
  - Fixed glitch of DBCS character at the end of a line (maron2000)
  - Fixed dialog for showing error of loading language files (maron2000)
  - Removed two and 226 duplicate Chinese character mappings from code
    pages 950 and 951, respectively, ensuring more accurate Big5 and
    Big5-UAO character mappings for Chinese IME users. (1abcd)
  - Enabled changing drives mounted prior to switching to securemode (maron2000)
  - Enabled some messages to be translated in the translation files (maron2000)
  - Fixed fullscreen mode occasionally switched to windowed mode (maron2000)
  - Updated French translation (FredBezies)
  - Fixed blank screen when output=ttf on PC-98 mode (maron2000)
  - Fixed crash when switching from fullscreen to window mode in TTF output
    (maron2000)
  - Fixed mounting zip files with white space in their names failed (maron2000)
  - Fixed crash on reboot when output=ttf (maron2000)
  - Fixed blank BIOS screen when output=ttf (maron2000)
  - Fixed direct input of half-width kana (maron2000)
  - Fixed PC-98 INT 1Fh, AH=90h source and destination address (drachen6jp)
  - Fixed unnecessary trailing backslash in path name (maron2000)
  - Fixed SSE MOVSS, MOVHPS, UNPCKLPS, UNPCKHPS, and PSADBW as well as
    MMX PMULLW, PSUBUSB, and PSUBUSW, instruction implementations (fuel-pcbox)