---
slug: 2026.05.02
date: May 02, 2026
---
2026.05.02
  - DOSBox-X will now check both the current directory and the .config
    directory in your home directory for DOSBox-X logo PNG files.
    It is now possible to configure one set of PNG files as a default
    for all uses of DOSBox-X from your user account. (joncampbell123).
  - src/gui/render.cpp: Added missing ifdef conditional on C_METAL to enable
    building on macOS platforms without Metal support. (herrnst)
  - Fixed Metal support detection: add framework linker flags to configure
    check (maron2000)
  - Fixed window position not centered even when windowposition option is set
    to do so. (maron2000)
  - Fixed MSCDEX device name padding for short names (maron2000)
  - When DOS games use the Adlib FM chip to do "digitized speech", DOSBox-X
    does emulate that correctly, and it also correctly emulates how low
    the volume is on the sound card output. However to make it more
    audible, a new option "adlib pcm boost" has been added. If set,
    and the Adlib emulation detects that the guest application is
    playing PCM audio through it, the audio levels of the FM output
    will be amplified to make the digitized speech much more audible.
    (joncampbell123)
  - Fixed mapping of TTF to match with guest codepage when launched with
    output=ttf. (maron2000)
  - Limit window size of TTF output to 2/3rd of the screen in both
    dimensions so that the window is not TOO large on the user's screen.
    (joncampbell123)
  - Fix segfault in TTF output code caused by codepage mapping when the
    TTF output is not active. (joncampbell123)
  - Fixed clip_paste_bios option change was not reflected. Also, default is
    changed to "true" for Windows due to some characters fails to paste when
    set otherwise. (maron2000)
  - Replaced some deprecated functions in dosbox.h. (maron2000)
  - Fixed colors in the screenshot of macOS SDL1 build were wrong.(maron2000)
  - Fix savestate restore crash in POD_Load_DOS_Files during live file slot 
    teardown (catbalony)
  - Fixed mouse cursor display in DOS/V Japanese mode (nanshiki)
  - INT 13h AH=48h: Fixed LBA detection (maron2000)
  - Fixed read/write errors on last sectors of disk image (maron2000)
  - Int 13h: Added option to enable/disable 48-bit LBA support (maron2000)
  - Fix VHD file geometry detection (maron2000)
  - Fixed crash when printing out multipages to printer (Windows) (maron2000)
  - printer.cpp: Fix occasional missing page break after line wrap (maron2000)