---
slug: 2026.01.02
date: Jan. 2, 2026
---
2026.01.02
- VESA BIOS will remove 8-bit bank switching limit if the video memory
  is large enough to need more than 256 banks. Memory size will always
  be limited to no more than 64 banks (128 if smaller than 64KB
  granularity) only if S3 emulation is active. DOSBox Integrated Graphics
  machine type is exempt from bank switching limit, so, if you are running
  legacy code or Demoscene stuff against it that never clears the upper
  8 bits properly, it's not going to work unless you use smaller memsize
  settings. (joncampbell123).
- Update BOOT command to support multiple disk images with swapping (maron2000).
- Render scaler system has been modified so that render and frame caches
  are now dynamically allocated, instead of fixed buffers. Not only does
  this reduce memory wasted by over-large buffers, it also removes
  limitations on guest video mode resolution that previously capped the
  video mode to 1920x1440 or lower, and the advanced scalers (HQ2X,
  Advanced MAME, etc) to 800x600 or lower. (joncampbell123).
- VGA output will now automatically disable doublescan mode whenever an
  advanced scaler, such as the "XBRZ" or the Advanced MAME scalers, are
  selected, so that the scalers can do their job properly on the low
  resolution graphics mode automatically. The user no longer has to
  manaully turn off doublescan mode for those scalers to work. (joncampbell123).
- Added TV, Scanline, and RGB scaler variants appropriate for VGA
  200-line modes with doublescan enabled (renders to 400 lines). In fact
  supporting those scalers with 400-line VGA is arguably more visually
  accurate than applying them to 200 lines of graphics, because it
  better reflects the actual 400-line raster as it would be displayed
  on a VGA monitor. (joncampbell123).
- Apparently at random, VGA render will call RENDER_DrawLine too much,
  causing buffer overruns at random, so, instead of directly assigning
  the scaler line handler, assign a function that checks the rendered
  line count and ensures that rendering stops at the correct line
  count. This should fix some random crashes or corruptions, especially
  on Linux with the OpenGL output which likes to allocate EXACTLY the
  amount of memory required for the frame. (joncampbell123).
- A patch was submitted to DOSLIB DSXMENU to incorporate non-selectable
  informational lines of text. Incorporate the updated DSXMENU binaries
  into DOSBox-X (joncampbell123).
- Wrote IPS patching tools IPSMAKE and IPSPATCH in DOSLIB, then incorporated
  them as builtin executables on drive Z: under Z:\PATCHING. You can
  now use IPS patch files to "ROM hack" your MS-DOS games. (joncampbell123)
- Add map13/map14 CGA/HGC like interleaved rendering support for VGA
  256-color mode. There is a game engine in development that is willing to
  use such oddball modes. (joncampbell123)
- Added SDL2_net to source tree (maron2000)
- Fixed regression of FIFA96 CD label detection (maron2000)
- Log OpenGL context version (rebb)
- Force SDL window regeneration when exiting fullscreen (rebb)
- Fixed file handle leak prevents save state file removal (srcdabada)